Here are comments about the notefiles contained in this directory.

Each file contains a list of notes with an on-time, and off-time (both
in milliseconds) and a pitch. These files can be used as input to the
"met-harm" script (the combined meter and harmony programs). They can
also be used as input to the "meter" program alone. They cannot be
used as input to the other programs (the grouping, counterpoint,
harmony and key programs), since that requires metrical information.

The files are of two basic types: quantized files and performance files.
Quantized files are those generated from a score, such as a Finale file. 
In quantized files, all timepoints (ontimes and offtimes) are quantized to
a large value such as 250 milliseconds. Performance files are generated
from a live performance on a MIDI keyboard; in such cases, the timepoints are
not quantized (except of course at the millisecond level).

Each notesfile is listed below. We give the name and composer of the
piece. If less the entire piece is included, we indicate what portion
is included. Where we have examined the output of the program
on a particular file, we give comments on the program's performance.

Almost all of these notefiles (both quantized and performed) are
generated from MIDI files. The MIDI files are available in the
directory "midi". (This could be useful, for example, if one wanted to
actually hear the file.) The name of the midi file is the same as the
corresponding notesfile except ending in ".mid" instead of ".notes".

The following MIDI files were generously provided by Pierre Schwab
(through the Classical Midi Archive, www.prs.net): bach.bfmainv.mid,
bach.bmiinv.mid, bach.cma-vcsuite.bour.mid, bach.cma-vcsuite.cour.mid,
bach.cmiinv.mid, bach.fmainv.mid, bach.wtc.cmaprel.mid,
bach.wtc.cmiprel.mid, beet.fmison.I.mid, beet.fmison.III.mid,
beet.fmison.IV.mid, brahms.int117-1.mid, deb.lisle.mid,
handel.harm-black.mid, joplin.ent.mid, mend.sww-bee.mid,
mend.sww102-2.mid, mzt.sqK159.II.mid.

* NOTESFILES *

* Quantized files *

bach.bfmainv.q.notes: Bach, Bb major Two-Part Invention.

bach.bmiinv.q.notes: Bach, B minor Two-Part Invention.

bach.cma-vcsuite.bour.q.notes: Bach, C major Unaccompanied Cello Suite,
Bourree.

bach.cma-vc.suite.cour.q.notes: Bach, C major Unaccompanied Cello Suite,
Courante.  Meter: correct except level 4 is out of phase. Harmony:
mm. 17-18, should be E-A, not A-D.  E in m. 54 is missed; so is C in
m. 57. Several mistakes in following passage. Also several Ab's
instead of G#.

bach.cmainv.q.notes: Bach, C major Invention. Meter: Correct up to
quarter-note level (level 3), then out-of-phase. Harmony: anticipations
at cadences are missed, e.g. at end of m. 6.

bach.cmiinv.q.notes: Bach, C minor Invention.

bach.cmimin.q.notes: Bach, C minor English Suite, Minuet. Meter correct
except level 4 out of phase. Harmony almost perfect. Mm. 19-20, should
be Eb-Ab, not C-F.

bach.emamin.q.notes: Bach, French Suite No. 6, Minuet. Meter: level 3 is
duple, not triple. (Twopass system does not help.) Harmony: B# are
missed in 12, causing incorrect harmony also.

bach.fmainv.q.notes: Bach, F major Two-Part Invention. Meter - totally
off. Tactus level is one eighth out of phase. After a weird
triple-eighth section in middle, tactus gets in phase. (Twopass system
helps a little, not much.) Some harmony problems also, no doubt partly
due to meter.

bach.gmagav.q.notes: Bach, French Suite No. 5, Gavotte. Meter exactly
like notated score (possibly first level 3 beat should be strong).
M. 12 should be A or F#, not D; mm. 17-18 should be G-C, not G-A-D-A.
Anticipations are a problem, as in final cadence.

bach.wtc.cmaprel.q.notes: Bach, Well-Tempered Clavier Book I, Prelude
No. 1.  Meter totally wrong, tactus (eighth-note) level is one
sixteenth out of phase. (It gives no priority to the lowest note of
each chord; and the "maximum effective length" is set so that the
first two notes of each measure are considered equal in length.)
A number of spelling mistakes in diminished sevenths.

bach.wtc.cmifug.q.notes: Bach, Well-Tempered Clavier Book I, Fugue No. 2,
mm. 1-24. Meter correct. Harmony and spelling mostly correct.

bach.wtc.cmiprel.q.notes: Bach, Well-Tempered Clavier Book I, Prelude No. 2.

bartok.mikro.q.notes: Bartok, "Syncopation", from Book V of Mikrokosmos.
An experiment to test the meter program's performance on metrically
irregular music. Not very satisfactory: the program analyzes it with a
perfectly regular meter. By boosting the note value relative to the
beat penalty (e.g., note_factor=2, beat_interval_factor=1,
meter_change_penalty=0), one can get a more satisfactory analysis
where many of the accented events (chords, long notes) are aligned
with beats. Probably one would need to incorporate parallelism to
handle this properly.

beet.cmison.q.notes: Beethoven, Sonata Op. 10 No. 1, I, mm. 1-22. Meter:
correct up to tactus (measure level), then out of phase. (However,
this becomes correct later in passage.) Shift to triples is handled
well. (Sixteenth notes in beginning require an extra level...) Harmony
good.

beet.fmison.I.q.notes: Beethoven, Sonata Op. 2 No. 1, I, exposition.
Meter: Several problems. Okay at beginning, except gets temporarily
confused by fermata. After move to Ab major, level 1 goes triple, then
tactus beat gets off. (It gets confused by syncopations.) At end, the
left-hand chords seem stronger than right-hand melody notes. Harmony
mostly not bad.

beet.fmison.III.q.notes: Beethoven, Sonata Op. 2 No. 1, III.

beet.fmison.IV.q.notes: Beethoven, Sonata Op. 2 No. 1, IV.

beet.path.q.notes: Beethoven, Sonata Op. 13, II. Meter correct. A few
harmonic problems, just like in unquantized version.

brahms.int116-6.q.notes: Brahms, Intermezzo Op. 116 No. 6. Meter: level
1 is duple, not triple. (It's not clear what the cue should be for
this...)  Move to triplets handled well. Harmony good; E-C-A in mm. 13-14
is odd, so is B in mm. 19-20. Spelling is
almost perfect (in my opinion...though different from score in a few
places). 

brahms.in117-1.q.notes: Brahms, Intermezzo Op. 117 No. 1.

chop.ammaz.q.notes: Chopin, Mazurka Op. 17 No. 4.

deb.lisle.q.notes: Debussy, "L'Isle Joyeuse".

handel.harm-black.q.notes: Handel, "Harmonious Blacksmith" theme.

haydn.bmisq.q.notes: Haydn, Quartet Op. 64 #2, I. Demonstrates harmonic
"garden-path" effect. If mm. 1-2 are given (as in
haydn.bmisq.small.q.notes), it analyzes them with a root of D. If you
give it mm. 1-4, however, it begins in B minor.  (Actually the first
chord-span has a root of C#, but it quickly moves to F#-B. Also it's
in the wrong cycle of the line of fifths, Db-Gb-Cb...)

haydn.bmisq.small.q.notes: see haydn.bmisq.q.notes, above.

joplin.ent.q.notes: Scott Joplin, "The Entertainer".

kings.q.notes: "We Three Kings", melody only. Meter: level 3 out of phase.
Harmony mostly good, A-G-A-D in mm. 7-8 is odd.

mend.sww-bee.q.notes: Mendelssohn, Songs Without Words, "Bee's Wedding".

mend.sww102-2.q.notes: Mendelssohn, Songs Without Words, Op. 102 No. 2.
Meter correct, although treating 16th level as tactus is odd. Harmony
and spelling: virtually perfect. A few G# half-diminished chords are
treated as B's, a few E#'s are spelled as F's.

mzt.309son.q.notes: Mozart, Sonata K. 309, I, mm. 1-7. Meter correct. Harmony
and spelling: one strange Bb chord (and Db note) in m. 7, also F in m. 6
should probably be D.

mzt.amavnson.q.notes: Mozart, Violin Sonata K. 526, I. Demonstration of
metric garden-path effect. Given mm. 1-3 (mzt.amavnson.small.q.notes),
the program will analyze even-numbered tactus beats as strong. Given
the whole opening section up to mm. 20, it analyzes odd-numbered ones
strong, as in score. (For this to work, tactus_min has to be set a
little higher - 450 mm - otherwise it finds bizarre duple analysis.)
(Harmony in mzt.amavnson.q.notes.small is all screwed up...!)

mzt.amavnson.small.q.notes: see mzt.amavnson.q.notes, above.

mzt.clarq.I.q.notes: Mozart, Clarinet Quintet, I.

mzt.sqK159.II.q.notes: Mozart, String Quartet K. 159, II.

schub.mm6.q.notes: Schubert, Moment Musical No. 6. (Main section only,
not trio.) Meter mostly correct, except level 4 out of phase. Triplets
in middle section are missed. It gets fooled by syncopation in final
phrase, tactus goes duple.  Harmonic problems: pedal chord in m. 15;
German sixths in m. 17 ff.; a couple of Bbb chords at end are labeled
Gb.

schub.waltz.q.notes: Schubert, Bb Major Waltz. Meter correct except
level 4 out of phase. A few appoggiatura chords are analyzed
incorrectly; first beat of m.1 is labeled Bb instead of F.

susannah.q.notes: "Oh Susannah", melody only. Meter correct except 
level 4 out of phase. Harmony correct.

yankee.q.notes: "Yankee Doodle", melody only. Meter correct; harmony
correct, except maybe it should go to D at last beat of m. 1. (Compare
with performance version, where harmony is all wrong.)

* Performed files *

bach.emamin.p.notes: Bach, French Suite in E major, Minuet. Meter
correct up to quarter-note, then duple instead of triple. This screws
up harmony in a few places, esp. mm. 11-14.

bach.gmagav.p.notes: Bach, French Suite in G major, Gavotte,
mm. 1-8. Meter correct; harmony correct except A instead of G in m. 5.

bach.cmainv.p.notes: Bach, Two-Part Invention No. 1. Meter correct up to
quarter-note (level 1), then out-of-phase. Harmonic problems: C
instead of G at beginning of m. 2.

battle.p.notes: "Battle Hymn of the Republic", unaccompanied melody.
Meter: upper levels good. Lower levels switch between duple and triple.
Second half is duple; sixteenth notes are sometimes labeled as eighths.
A few small harmonic and spelling problems.

beet.efmamin.p.notes: Beethoven, Sonata Op. 7, III. First section
(mm. 1-24)mostly good. Meter mostly correct. Upper levels get confused
in syncopated passages.  Harmonic and spelling problems - diminished
sevenths often spelled wrong (e.g. G-B-Db-Fb spelled with an E), given
wrong root as well. (Same problem in m. 11.)

beet.gmason.p.notes: Beethoven, Op. 49 No. 2, I, Exposition. Meter:
almost perfect.  Handles duple-triple switching well. Some notes
missed in triplet passages.  Harmony mostly good. Some spelling
problems, Eb instead of D# in opening section.

beet.path.p.notes: Beethoven, Sonata Op. 13 ("Pathetique"), II, mm. 1-8.
Meter perfect. Harmony: a couple of unwanted chord-changes on
sixteenth-notes: fourth and eighth 16ths of m. 5 and sixth 16th of
m. 7. 

birthday.p.notes: Melody of "Happy Birthday". Meter perfect up to level 4.
Harmony weird in places.

birthday2.p.notes: Melody of "Happy Birthday", with a big fermata after
third line. Now meter is screwed up, duple all the way through.

chop.ammaz.p.notes: Chopin, Mazurka Op. 17 No. 4, first half. Meter:
measure level is duple instead of triple. "Twopass" system fixes this
to some extent - now it's largely in triple, but still goes duple in
some sections. Harmony and spelling: not too bad, considering level of
difficulty. The third measure of the main phrase is sometimes labeled
as E instead of G.

chop.fsmaprel.p.notes: Chopin, Prelude No. 13. Meter: mostly right. Has some
problems distinguished extrametrical notes (rolled chords) from metrical ones.
Harmony: analyzes whole piece in Gb, which is reasonable. Some spelling problems, 
like Bbb instead of A.

kings.p.notes: "We Three Kings" melody. Meter: perfect, except ritard
in middle causes an extra tactus beat, which makes upper levels get out
of phase. Harmony: harmonic rhythm seems somewhat too fast, too many
chord changes on eighth notes.

letitbe.p.notes: The Beatles, "Let it Be", improvised piano performance.
Meter pretty good. Level 1 largely triple, probably due to syncopated
notes in melody. Harmony almost perfect.

mzt.amason.p.notes: Mozart, Sonata K. 331, I, mm. 1-18. Meter correct up
to dotted-half level, then out-of-phase. Harmony: some problems, like
A instead of F# in first half of m. 7.

mzt.cmason.p.notes: Mozart, Sonata K. 545, I, mm. 1-12. Meter and harmony
both perfect.

mzt.fmason.p.notes: Mozart, Sonata K. 332, I, exposition. Meter
problems: syncopated section near end causes upper levels to get out
of phase until end.  Some notes missed in passagework sections
(i.e. mm. 23 ff.), problems also with rolled chords. Sixteenths in
left at end are analyzed as triplets. A number of small harmonic
problems, like C instead of G in m. 11, B-A instead of C in m. 44: G#
spelled as Ab in mm. 82 ff.

ram.amigav.p.notes: Rameau, Gavotte, A minor. Meter: a lot of problems
with the extrametrical notes, often the wrong notes are placed on
the beat. Harmony mostly okay.

ram.amigav.p.notes: Rameau, first variation from A minor gavotte.

schum.kind1.p.notes: Schumann, "Kinderscenen", No. 1. Meter almost perfect;
handles ritard at end of middle section well. (The last two notes are
wrong...) Harmony good except for occasional eighth-note changes, like
going to G on last eighth of m. 1. 

schum.kind2.p.notes: Schumann, "Kinderscenen", No. 2. Meter: level 3
out-of-phase.  "Twopass" system largely fixes this, except for a
couple of brief moves to duple. A few sixteenth-note chords are
analyzed as eighth-notes.  Spelling: some problems with Eb/D# and
F/E#.

schum.kind7.p.notes: Schumann, "Kinderscenen", No. 7. Meter: pretty
screwed up. Gets confused by ritards, rolled chords, syncopations 
(long chord on second beat in m. 1). Harmony and spelling mostly right.

star.p.notes: "Star-Spangled Banner". Meter: Right up until fermata;
then tactus gets off briefly (but then gets right again), level 1
goes duple until end. Harmony: a few odd things like Bb instead of F
in m. 4.

susannah.p.notes: Melody, "Oh Susannah". Meter and harmony perfect.

yankee.p.notes: Melody, "Yankee Doodle". Meter correct, except top level
out of phase. Harmony wrong - entire melody analyzed in E minor
instead of G major.


